Muhammad nazal is a member of hamas's
political Bureau he calls Israel's
continued bombardment of Gaza and AC of
terrorism the intensity of strikes on
civilians in Gaza is due to the
political and moral bankruptcy of
netanyahu's government the Zionist
terrorist
government while the kasm brigades
meanwhile has released video footage
showing its Fighters launching kamakazi
drones into Israeli territory tree the
military wing of Hamas said it targeted
sites in Israel for the first time since
its offensive more than two weeks ago
well let's bring in Alan Fischer he
joins us now from occupied East
Jerusalem Alan an attack on Israeli
territory what have you been hearing
about these
drones well in the last couple of hours
as you see those two suicide drones were
fired from Gaza towards communities very
close uh to the Gaza border now
according to the Israeli Army both of
those drones were thwarted around the
same time there was an alert in the
north of the country just north of hia
probably about 17 km away from the
border with Lebanon and there was an
alert there because drone had been fired
by Hezbollah again the Israeli defense
the Israeli Army are saying that they
intercepted uh those drones uh that but
there'll be some concern that they came
so close to one another and certainly
Israeli intelligence will be
investigating whether there was a level
of coordination between Gaza and also
Hezbollah in the north but it for the
Israelis it's certainly a worrying
development and I believe Alan that the
Dutch prime minister is now meeting with
both the Israelis and the Palestinians
that's remarkable what are Mark rut's
priorities well Mark rut has met with
Benjamin Netanyahu uh he obviously
expressed his support for Israel and
what they were doing but he he's also on
record is demanding a humanitarian
ceasefire to allow Aid into Gaza he's
also talked about while Israel having
the right to defend itself they also
have to act within humanitarian law and
also the the rules of War uh he's then
going to meet with Mahmud Abbas in rala
now Mahmud Abbas has met with a couple
of Western leaders he's met with rushi
sunak the the British prime minister
that happened in Cairo and he of course
met with Anthony blinkin and that was in
a man but this is the first time that
the Western leader has come here uh to
express support for Israel but also
added on to that a visit to the
Palestinian leader uh in rala it's an
interesting development and hopefully
we'll hear from Mark Ruta at some point
now one thing he wanted to raise with
the Israelis was the death of a
33-year-old Dutch woman she had arrived
in Gaza just a couple of days before the
war started she has been killed and we
are told by the Dutch foreign Ministry
Mark rut would like to hear an
explanation from the Israelis about that
woman's death specifically I'm sure Alan
there with the latest forest for from
occupied East Jerusalem thank you very
much Alan well let's bring in Patrick
buy he is in B in the UK he's a defense
and security Analyst at the University
of bth and also a former NATO analyst
Patrick just picking up on what I was
discussing there with Alan these drones
do you think they represent a change in
tactics from Hamas and and where have
they gotten them
from good afternoon no I don't think
they've changed uh changed tactics
essentially we saw the drones being used
very successfully
um against the Israeli security wall and
in particular some of the sensors that
are used there with the um Hamas
Commandos using the drones to
essentially drop explosives onto the the
power packs for those uh Those sensors
and then being able to with a
culmination of other tactics being able
to overwhelm The Defenders so this is
just part of the course we've seen them
used heavily in Ukraine and continue to
be used in Ukraine and indeed I think a
lot of these organizations are learning
um from each other watching what is
happening um via social media Etc
looking for what works and adapting as
they go ahead so I don't think it's
anything new I think it's constantly
evolving lots of speculation that
they're homemade is that your reading as
well uh I it looks like uh just having a
look at your footage there some of those
uh look like platforms that I haven't
seen before and wouldn't immediately
recognize um of course Hamas are known
for having a indigenous uh weapons
building capability be it shells Rockets
um explosives and
uh it looks like in that case Jones but
I couldn't say without 100% without
viewing more footage sure well the
Israelis have been saying that they're
trying to get their captives back we
know there have been ground raids in
Gaza one soldier killed over the last
day or so what are the implications of a
ground offensive for those still being
held well this is it I think it it
really complicates the calculus for the
Israeli Defense Forces in any planned uh
invasion of Gaza which seems to be
looking like it's is going to focus on
North Gaza at least initially um
essentially you don't really want to
start an invasion when your enemy has
you know over 200 uh of your hostages uh
and so I would thought that the raid is
actually quite indicative of how this
may go down now in the next few days and
that there'll be uh intelligence-led
raids and operations probably supported
by Special Forces on the ground trying
to gain either more intelligence
informers signals intelligence to to
pick up if they can but Hamas have been
shown that they're very adapted avoiding
digital Communications in the planning
of the sept September uh sorry 7th of
October attack so um I think that that
would probably be how it goes uh in the
in the near term then in the in the in
the in the longer term of course if
there is a a larger Invasion the
unfortunate situation is if all those
hostages aren't freed by diplomatic
means or or by these raids is there's
potentially a situation where you know
they are they're brought to harm uh as
as the uh as The Invasion goes on either
through misadventure and accident and
and obviously war is a chaotic uh
environment or indeed by uh some
deliberate means by Hamas in response to
the Israeli ground Invasion uh Patrick
so you're saying that you believe that
these ground raids these smaller ground
raids will continue and then we could
still see this this bigger ground
offensive it's been reported that the US
wants this offensive delayed partly so
it seems it can prepare itself for proxy
conflicts elsewhere in the region how
big could this become in your reading
I think the delay so far is is actually
quite significant and I think you know
it probably what's going on behind the
scenes I don't have inside information
at all but I would imagine that although
a lot of the western leaders are very
supportive of Ukraine outwardly they are
raising the uh the international law
element and you must be proportionate
and also avoid civilian casualties um
but I wouldn't be surprised behind
closed doors they urging restraint
because this is now a Tinder Box things
are poised very finely and as you
rightly say if there was an in Israeli
ground incursion into Northern Gaza we
would presume that at least some of
Hamas would stay in fight that would
turn into a very Urban bloody war
therefore uh and of course the Arab
public opinion which is already against
Israel would probably go further so and
therefore and in know that kind of
situation where you have Hezbollah in
the north and and a proxy of Iran the
potential for them to decide to take
action to be seen as kind of the Arabic
uh you know saviors essentially and and
uh to to to defend themselves against
Israel uh grows quite a lot and and I
think that's really the worry and I
think hence why a lot of uh diplomacy is
going on behind the scenes trying to Cal
things down and that includes
potentially I don't know but potentially
the delay might in part explain the
delay of these uh of of the ground
Invasion as does of course the re the
fact that Hamas have their hostages sure
and and very real fears of escalation as
you were saying Patrick buy there a
defense and security Analyst at the
University of b thank you so much for
joining us and sharing your expertise
with us here on alzer